Welcome back you wonderful God people in this video.
We're going extend the functionality of night vision.
I would like to set it up so that all of the torches or flash lights are turned off when we're in night
vision mode and turned on we were in dark vision mode.
The reason I'm doing this is I think night vision needs a penalty.
We've got this very dark and gloomy game and we've now given the player the ability to see wherever
they are very easily.
Now we do already have a penalty we've put a call down in.
So the player can't spam the space and change vision modes very quickly.
However if the player can't see the NPC line of sight torches then that means that they're gonna have
to make some very tactical decisions.
What's more important to me right now understanding what's around me or understanding and how much danger
I meant by the way when we turn the torches off remember the line of sight will still work.
The guards will still be able to see us.
That's because our torches have the same angle as our line of sight.
But they are not out of sight.
They're two completely separate things.
OK so let's get to it first and is I'm going to get rid of this green overlay from that.
So let's go in to night vision wedgy vision mode and I'm just going to set the colour back to dark.
And the only reason I'm doing this is it makes it easier for me to visualize the level as the players
first going to see someone go in there and turn it back on.
Great.
And also just now going to hide vision mode so I can see what I'm doing.
All right so let's talk about what's going to happen the players in the space Vision modes going to
change and all of the pieces are going to switch their torches off and then when we change back they
can all switch them on at the same time.
Now we've looked at how to do this with groups of the very first thing I'd like to do is add every single
camera and guard to a new group called NPC.
Now this is much only in the video than we normally do this but that's my challenge for you.
See if you can add all the pieces to a group.
Every camera and garden level should be part of a new group called mpac.
There's multiple ways you can do this.
My tip is try and future proof this.
Avoid having to remember to add new cameras and guards to this group.
If you add more later.
In other words if in a week's time you decide that we need a more camera.
Try and avoid the situation where you have to remember oh and this needs to be in this group so dont
worry if he get this a little bit wrong.
That's why we're practicing the pause the video.
Give this a shot and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
Welcome back.
All right I mentioned there are multiple solutions.
So the first and probably simpler solution is to click on alp's not the fancher is to click on let's
say a camera go into node go into groups and just add NPC and then do this for every single security
camera and every single guard and that will work.
But this is the future proofing I was talking about right.
This is now if I add a new camera I'm going to have to make sure that that camera is in this group some
remove this a second where we could do this is we could go into the security camera scene and add the
camera.
The base camera seen to that group.
Now we save that scene.
This camera will be in that group and that will work fine.
The third way is to do this in code.
Just make sure we're not in the group still good.
All cameras and pieces use the same script they all use play detection.
Now the guards are not running play the action.
They're running the god script with the gods script extends pled detection so if we change play detection
it'll change all them.
So I going to go and play the tangshan Detection and I'll make a ready function and this function is
going be function ready and it's going to go to group.
And P.S..
And that should be all I need.
I've also noticed that right here player although we did add it to the global script is not actually
being used that way so why don't we.
Do play calls global dot player.
And we've made this level neutral.
Great.
All guards and cameras.
The moment this script runs the moment ready starts running or at themselves and pieces so I don't have
to worry about who's in what group.
So let's save that going to use groups to call functions.
Let's put those functions in so we have two new functions going was give me function night vision mode
and I'm using the same typing that I use right here just to make it nice and Cliff myself and that's
going to do something.
And then right here they are a function.
Dark vision mode and we could add a whole bunch of revision modes.
As we've talked about before we're not going to but we could.
If you want to by the way go ahead that's great.
Extra work.
It's not parsing because I have too many times in here so let's get rid of these redundant tabs.
There we go.
Night vision mode.
So when when in night vision what's going to happen we're going to torch dot enabled equals false on
dark vision mode.
We're going to go torch dot enabled equals true.
And remember if you're not sure where to find that even go in to any script that use this.
A scene that uses rather look for a torch and under the inspector mouseover enabled and you can see
lower case enabled that the property will be changing so the script.
Save this.
Now we need to do is actually call this function.
There's a couple of ways I could do this.
I could do this in player and just add it right here so I could add election line and go get tree core
group and p.c and do that.
Or I could do this in vision mode.
Now I could see an argument for this either way.
However as vision mode is the thing that's changing and the guards are etched into vision mode.
I'm tempted to put it here and one which doesn't make a single function Let's make this nice and easy.
I'm a call this inform guards now inform and pieces.
And this is going to be get tree dot call group.
Not great group flags which is core group with extra things you can add in.
We don't need that.
What do we call it in the NPC group and we need to call a string method.
I'm going to parse that string in here with vision mode and a call vision mode as I go in and vision
mode going to be either night vision or dark vision.
So right here I'm covert vision mode and naturally everything that this needs.
So now let's call in form pieces vision.
So let's do it right here in the top of night vision
and I need to make sure that they're going to call the correct function.
So let's go into play detection.
And call this night vision mode.
Let's put that as a strong reason doing this.
This has to be called a string.
If I don't call this a string it'll be called as a variable.
There is no variable called Night Vision mode beginning at terrible books.
So we're going to pass a string called Night Vision mode to inform and pieces.
It doesn't actually matter what vision mode is.
I could call this banana.
I could call it King Bob or anything else from minions.
In fact it doesn't even have to be four minutes but I want to put vision mode just so I as the person
reading the code knows what's happening.
And now let's copy in form in pieces.
And a set of night vision mode we want dark vision.
And now let's see how that works out.
Let's see how this works.
Here I am wondering if the level I go into night vision mode I can't see any torches.
The guards are still there.
They can still see me although we haven't set up any way of the play and knowing that there's no penalty
right now there's no goalie but there will be.
But look at that.
Perfect.
We now have night vision working as night vision would be expected to work later on the game were going
to add labels to be part of the interface group and then when those labels receive that signal they're
going to put in everything that they need.
So we might say reception room office stuff like that.
And that brings us to the other video.
We've managed to do this very quickly because we spent so much time setting things up properly.
We've got our dependencies well set up our groups are calling nice and cleanly.
We've got a nice logical chain of events that leading to the torch is coming off.
We're in really good shape in this video.
We've had the pieces automatically add themselves to the NPC group and we have all the torches being
switched on and off as needed when vision mode changes excellent work and I'll see you in the next year.